---
id: 498
title: Lately
date: '2010-07-04T08:18:11-06:00'
author: fosterizo
layout: post
guid: 'http://www.williamgfoster.com/blog/?p=498'
permalink: /2010/07/04/lately/
categories:
    - Code
    - Random
    - School
---

Hello all, lately I've been a bit delinquent about updating this blog. That is for a few different reasons;
<ul>
  <li>First, My idea to take Math 333 (Differential Equations) over the summer, has turned into a lesson patience. Way too much homework for one class, and then the teacher won't even grade the entire assignment :( after turning it in.</li>
  <li>Second, I have been working ~full-time at Sybase iAnywhere as the Advantage Database Server R&amp;D Intern expert. I have been writing code in C++ and Delphi (Object Oriented Pascal), making friends with co-workers, and getting my feet wet in the complete corporate structure. I've only worked there since February and we already got acquired by a larger German company (shout for joy here about the German part) SAP. A leading provider of business software and database solutions.</li>
</ul>
As far as at home goes, I've been trying to relax as much as possible around my homework schedule, and I've been trying to get my hands in some low-level recreational coding with microprocessors to keep my basics (byte alignment, bit manipulation, I/O runtime issues, etc.) in tune as much as possible. Nothing fancy but I do have some neat plans in the work, they include some serial LCD manipulation, some blinking LED's and maybe some input sensors to start. This is all in an effort to get my C language skills up to par. There has also been a little bit of mountain biking mixed in there as well, which Boise is known for.
Last month was my birthday so I'm now officially 22 years young :) glad to be done with the 21-year-old stigma, and having everyone give me crap about being so young. Special thanks to my family again for the wonderful computer that I got for my 22nd birthday. I'm actually blogging on it right now :), and it has allowed me to take my home network to new limits, including remote access to my old computer globally via. a remote desktop session. My long-term goal is to be able to set up a full streaming server, where I could be able to dial into from anywhere and stream my content, via RTP multicast, UPD unicast, HTTP, or TCP. This has yet to be ironed out but I'm sure I'll have more information as I become more educated on internet protocols and how to access data in better ways.
Little P-Nut has started to venture into the outdoors and she cannot get enough of it, I've never experienced with letting a cat outdoors and she has taken to it extremely well, she stays close, checks in often, and stays out of harms way from what I can tell so far. The only issue is she might be a little too brave. She has enjoyed the rain, the sun, and the wind we so often see in Boise.
Well anyways, enough about me, my job, and my cat. I have included some pictures for your enjoyment.
[gallery link="file" type="slideshow" columns="1" size="large" ids="503,501,500,499" orderby="rand"]